ABOUT
Sonny Champagne and the BillionAIres is a music project centered on
documenting and amplifying the environmental rollbacks and irreparable
harms being done on the American people through song. Executive
Orders since the 47th president’s inauguration in January 2025 have
rolled back significant environmental protection(s). The noise of politics
and language of the orders hide the destructive power these orders
have wrought. Songs are being created for each executive order. Each
song is labelled by the name of the Executive Order (e.g. EO 14241 -
Immediate Measures To Increase American Mineral Production) and
characterized by its language (e.g. mining for “Maximum Possible
Extent”).
Banner Image of environment (separator)
MUSIC section, each song gets its own block.
Cover image | embedded song via Spotify player | about the song
Song 1
Cover | Song embed | About
<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px"
src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/2a3VWuwuE6JXz5jdcuwzSM?
utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="352" frameBorder="0"
allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media;
fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>
EO 14154 – Unleashing American Energy (Jan 20, 2025)
The executive order reorients federal policy toward “energy dominance”
by maximizing fossil fuel extraction on federal lands and waters,

resuming LNG export approvals, and dismantling Biden‐era climate and
environmental justice directives. It directs the Council on Environmental
Quality (CEQ) to rescind government‐wide NEPA regulations, sharply
weakening environmental review, and orders a pause and
reassessment of major Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law climate and clean‐energy investments.
Official text / register

White House: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-
actions/2025/01/unleashing-american-energy/

Federal Register:

https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/03/20/unleashing-
american-energy

Song 2
Cover | Song embed | About
<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px"
src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/2a3VWuwuE6JXz5jdcuwzSM?
utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="352" frameBorder="0"
allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media;
fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>
EO 14241 – Immediate Measures To Increase American Mineral
Production (Mar 20, 2025)
Declares that federal environmental regulations have “eroded” mineral
production and directs agencies to “facilitate domestic mineral
production to the maximum extent possible,” invoking the Defense
Production Act. It opens essentially all federal lands to mining as a
priority use, orders expedited permitting and financing for
critical‐mineral projects, and establishes the National Energy
Dominance Council to coordinate aggressive expansion of mining and
processing.

FAQ Section.
Q: Who is Sonny Champagne?
A: Sonny Champagne is an AI persona. AI persona serves as a platform
for documentation and crafting a counter narrative. Instead of pushing
out music as fast as possible, however, we are focused on curating
lyrics from laws, direct quotes from events, reading through executive
orders, presidential pardons, among other sources. We curate, cull, and
shape. Should this music take hold, proceeds generated from this

project will be used to support organizations fighting for a livable planet
(the NRDC, 350.org, and Climate Restoration) and organizations
working to pay musicians a living wage in the age of AI, both locally and
nationally (Music Workers Alliance (MWA), Human Artistry Campaign,
and Harmonic Laboratory). Producing a human made music project is in
the works.
Q: Why are you using AI music? Isn’t that harmful to the environment?
A: Yes. Sonny Champagne uses a service that relies on data centers
and a negative environmental impact to generate a thing that points
toward environmental harms by Executive Orders. Irony lives here.
Giving voice to irreparable harms is necessary, prudent, and situational.
How can we keep up to the deluge of the shit that keeps being pumped
out? Our AI is being fertilized with the fodder of old men and their
excrement, their billions, helping to fertilize the rising tide of resistance.
The billionAIres help amplify a voice calling out for justice and for our
future.
Q: Why do you need AI music to be a vehicle for highlighting
environmental harms?
A: The increase in executive orders focused on the environment has
been swift and far-reaching. Project 2025, organized by The Heritage
Foundation and former Trump administration officials, provided a
detailed blueprint to restructure the federal government and eliminate
protections from day 1 (Jan. 20th, 2025). A record number of executive
orders were signed on January 20th, including several that impacted the
environment. Leveraging AI enables the project to keep pace with the
environmental rollbacks and document the process. We are focused on
curating lyrics from laws, direct quotes from events, reading through
executive orders, presidential pardons, among other sources.
Q: Are you using a service that wasn’t trained ethically as a call to our
own existential moral dilemma?
A: We used Suno to create Sonny Champagne. We know it’s
problematic. Proceeds generated from this project will be used to
support organizations working to pay musicians a living wage in the age
of AI, both locally and nationally (Music Workers Alliance (MWA), Human
Artistry Campaign, and Harmonic Laboratory).